Document how to free up the resouces on a node (#348)
2i2c-org/pilot-hubs: docs/howto/operate/node-administration.md

# Manual node administration

The current pilot Kubernetes clusters we run, have two types of group nodes ([node pools](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/concepts/node-pools)), configured to run on: `core` and `user` pools.

> The [node selector](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/#nodeselector) configuration will ensure that all core and support pods will be placed and run on nodes from the core pool and all the user pods will be assigned on nodes in the user pool. This separation should protect against user pods exhausting the resources needed by core and support pods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [node selector](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/#nodeselector) configuration will ensure the following assignment of pods to nodes:

- **Core and support pods** will be assigned nodes from the core pool
- **User pods** will be assigned to nodes in the user pool.

This separation should protect against user pods exhausting the resources needed by core and support pods.
```

> The nodes spawn by these node pools are configured to run on kinds of VMs, that are determined based on the number, type and the needs(CPU, memory, etc.) of the pods that run on these. Checkout the current configuration of the clusters in the [`terraform` code section](https://github.com/2i2c-org/pilot-hubs/tree/master/terraform).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The nodes spawned by these node pools are configured to run on kinds of VMs, that are determined based on the number, type and the needs(CPU, memory, etc.) of the pods that run on these. Checkout the current configuration of the clusters in the [`terraform` code section](https://github.com/2i2c-org/pilot-hubs/tree/master/terraform).
```

> The nodes spawn by these node pools are configured to run on kinds of VMs, that are determined based on the number, type and the needs(CPU, memory, etc.) of the pods that run on these. Checkout the current configuration of the clusters in the [`terraform` code section](https://github.com/2i2c-org/pilot-hubs/tree/master/terraform).

Reviewer: I am not quite sure what this sentence is saying - could you try re-wording or explaining in the comment and we can discuss?

Author: Thanks @choldgraf! I've just added a commit that rephrases this a bit. Let me know if it makes more sense now.

## Freeing up a node

Sometimes you might need to delete or to perform maintenance on a node in the cluster. Some steps need to be performed, in order not to disrupt the pods that run on that node:

1. [Cordon](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubectl/kubectl-commands#cordon) the node:
    ```bash
        kubectl cordon <node-name>
    ```
    This command will mark the node as `unschedulable` and no new pods will be scheduled to run on this node.

2. Delete *some* of the pods running on the node:
    ```bash
        kubectl delete pods <pod>
    ```

    There are usually three types of pods running on a node, depending on how were they created:
    * Pods created by [ReplicaSet](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/replicaset/) objects, through [Deployments](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/)

> 

Reviewer 2: Could you please add some examples pods here? That should help the reader to quickly identify those ones.

Author: Thanks for the suggestion @damianavila! I've just added a commit that adds some examples (the ones that I could identify at least)

        Once deleted, these Pods will get re-created and assigned to a different node (because the current node it's cordoned).
    * Pods created by [DaemonSet](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/daemonset/) objects.

> 

Reviewer 2: Same here, some example cases would be useful for the future reader.

        These run on every node, regardless of their `cordon` status. So, they don't need to be deleted, otherwise, they will be re-created on the same cordoned node.
    * Pods **not** controlled by a Controller

        These are usually the user pods and shouldn't be deleted, as they would disrupt the user. Instead, these will be taken down by the [idle culler](https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyterhub-idle-culler) when they're in an idle state.

> 3. Wait for the node to be reclaimed by the [Autoscaler](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/horizontal-pod-autoscale/).

Reviewer 2: I am not sure if the horizontal pod autoscaler is the proper link here... From the lines written below, it seems you are talking about the cluster autoscaler.

Author: Modified the link. Thank you! :D

# Manual node administration

The current pilot Kubernetes clusters we run, have two types of group nodes ([node pools](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/concepts/node-pools)), configured to run on: `core` and `user` pools.

The [node selector](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/#nodeselector) configuration will ensure the following assignment of pods to nodes:

- **Core and support pods** will be assigned nodes from the core pool
- **User pods** will be assigned to nodes in the user pool.

This separation should protect against user pods exhausting the resources needed by core and support pods.

> The machines where the core nodes run, are different than the ones on which the user nodes run. The type of these machines is chosen based on the number, type and the resource needs (CPU, memory, etc.) of the pods that will be scheduled to run on these nodes. Because of this resource dependance, these types might be adjusted in the future. You can checkout the exact type of the core and user nodes VMs in the [`terraform` config](https://github.com/2i2c-org/pilot-hubs/blob/master/terraform/variables.tf).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The machines where the core nodes run, are different than the ones on which the user nodes run.
The type of these machines is chosen based on the number, type, and the resource needs (CPU, memory, etc.) of the pods that will be scheduled to run on these nodes.
Because of this resource dependance, these types might be adjusted in the future.
You can checkout the exact type of the core and user nodes VMs in the [`terraform` config](https://github.com/2i2c-org/pilot-hubs/blob/master/terraform/variables.tf).
```

Reviewer: I also split up this paragraph so that it is "one sentence per line". I've found this is a nice compromise between "one paragraph per line" and a strict "77 characters per line" for documentation.

## Freeing up a node

Sometimes you might need to delete or to perform maintenance on a node in the cluster. Some steps need to be performed, in order not to disrupt the pods that run on that node:

1. [Cordon](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubectl/kubectl-commands#cordon) the node:
    ```bash

>         kubectl cordon <node-name>

Reviewer: why is the code in these blocks indented? (if no reason, can we unindent them?)

Author: Just fixed it :D Thank you!
